[MUSIC]
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Let's talk
about smart and dumb components.
I'm going to actually start with dumb
components and that is a dumb component
basically gets everything that it needs
to render delivered via input and
it doesn't handle any logic, it just
defers backup to its parent via output.
And so this is what a dumb
component would look like.
And when I achieve this,
it's a fist pump in the air moment for me.
That this thing,
this items list component,
as long as I get the template correct,
the opportunities for
this thing to go awry is pretty slim,
because it's not really,
so it's being delivered state but
there's no opportunity for
one to mutate state, there's not logic for
it to introduce bugs into the application.
It's very simple.
With that, you can pass this around and
you just know that if I get an items
array, or an array of items,
and I call or
put on the component a handler for
selected and deleted,
then this thing is going to work.
And so this is a dumb component
as opposed to a smart component,
which would be in this case
our top level application.
I believe actually in the sample code I
broke this out into a top
level items component.
But this is your smart component.
It actually has some logic in it.
That is responsible for
interfacing with services and
it kind of coordinates what's
happening underneath of it.
So the idea is you want to create
a few smart components and
as many dumb components as possible.
And what this does is it reduces the area
in which things can go
wrong in your application.
Kind of what I would say your
testable surface in your application.
Because now, everything is going up
into these kind of top level components
that are responsible for
delegating to appropriate services.
So again, create a few smart components.
So where I was talking about the screen or
the graphic where you had those
boxes on the stage, those generally
I think of these are containers.
This is a smart component.
And then it's responsible for coordinating
the dumb components underneath of it.
Then once we get into NgRx tomorrow,
you'll see that we're even going to make
that surface area even smaller by pulling
our entire state into
a single application, or
single JavaScript tree
within the NgRx store.
But again, with Angular 1 there's
a real problem of I had this,
I'm calling the service,
I'm getting some information and
I'm storing it in my controller, and when
I make a change, then I basically have to
find some way to communicate this back to
the controller, or to the service so that
it can tell the rest of the controllers
and hopefully not break anything.
With angular2,
by creating smart components,
you are minimizing local state,
which is great.
Then once you've taken
a step further into NGRX and
the redux pattern,
then it goes into a single-state tree, and
it's even harder to break your
application and it's much easier to test.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Are there
any questions about that?
So really, this entire module could
be summed up as you have a component,
it gets what it needs in, if it needs
to do something, it uses output
to delegate that to its parent component,
and that is.
It's smart component is
the parent container, and
you want to have as many dumb components
that are just simply inputs and outputs.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Interestingly enough,
I think that when you talk about this,
I've been talking about this for
maybe 25 minutes,
it seems almost like I'm
belaboring this point.
But coming from Angular 1,
this idea did not really exist, and
I still see a lot of people
approaching their 1 apps where they're
okay sprinkling state,
they don't have clear encapsulation and
paths for
their application to talk to each other.
With Angular 2,
it took me not too long but
I realized I have to shift my entire with
thinking and see everything is these
blocks that connect onto each
other via input and output.